Welcome to the last
video of this week.
In this video, you're going
to see what the dataset
would look like for
a Siamese network.
I'll show you how you can
train your model and then
you can use that model to
test your Siamese network.
Let's take a look at
how you can do this.
You'll be using the Quora
question duplicates
datasets for this week's
programming assignment.
It looks like this.
It consists of a collection of
question pairs within
its duplicates
Boolean for each question.
For example, for Question 1 and
Question 2, "What is your age?"
and "How old are you?"
Its duplicate equals
"true" because these two
questions are duplicates.
"Where are you from?" and
"Where are you going?"
are not duplicates, so
it's false and so on.
This dataset gives your model
plenty of examples to learn from.
First, you will process
the dataset so that
it looks like this.
You will pre-process the
data into batches of size b.
The corresponding questions from
each batch are duplicates.
For example, the first question
in Batch 1, "What is your age?"
is a duplicate of
the first question
in Batch 2, "How old are you?"
The second question in Batch 1 is
a duplicate of the second
question in Batch 2 and so on.
Note however, that there are
no duplicates within
an individual batch.
If I call this q1_a,
this q2_a, then q1_a and
q2_a are duplicates.
If this was q1_b
and this was q2_b,
then q1_b and q2_b
are duplicates.
However, q1_a and q1_b
are not duplicates.
Similarly, q2_a and q2_b
I'll show you how to
prepare the batches in
such a way that no question
within the same
batch is duplicated.
Finally, you'll use these inputs
to get outputs vectors
for each batch.
Then, you can calculate
the cosine similarity between
each pair of output vectors.
This is the Siamese
model that you'll
be implementing in
the assignment.
You'll create a subnetwork,
which is then duplicated
and drawn in parallel.
In each subnetwork,
you got the embedding,
run it through the LSTM,
take your vector output,
and then use them to find
the cosine similarity.
An important note here,
is that the learned parameters of
the subnetworks are exactly
the same between the
two subnetworks.
So you are actually only training
one sets of weights, not two.
When testing the model,
you will perform
one-shot learning.
The goal is to find
a similarity score between
two inputs questions.
First, convert each input
into an array of numbers.
Feed these into your model.
Compare the subnetwork
outputs v_1 and
v_2 using cosine similarity
for a similarity score.
Then, test the score
against some threshold Tau,
and if the cosine similarity
is greater than Tau,
then the questions are
classified as duplicates.
Note that both Tau and
the margin Alpha from
the last function are
tunable hyperparameters.
Congratulations, you
now know how to train
your Siamese network and
you know how to test it.
In this week's
programming exercise,
you'll be using a Siamese
network to identify
whether a question is
a duplicate or not.
Specifically, you'll be using
the Quora question
duplicate data sets,
and using that, you'll be able to
get a very good accuracy.